"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute stress/atom command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID group-ID stress/atom :pre

ID, group-ID are documented in "compute"_compute.html command
stress/atom = style name of this compute command :ul

[Examples:]

compute 1 mobile stress/atom :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that computes the per-atom stress tensor for each
atom in a group.  The 6 components can be output via the "dump
custom"_dump.html command.

The stress tensor is computed for only pairwise forces where the {ab}
component of stress on atom {i} is given by

:c,image(Eqs/stress_tensor.jpg)

where the first term is a kinetic energy component for atom {i}, {j}
loops over the {N} neighbors of atom {i}, and {Fb} is one of 3
components of force on atom {i} due to atom {j}.  Both {a} and {b}
take on values x,y,z to generate the 6 components of the symmetric
tensor.

Note that this formula for stress does not include virial
contributions from intra-molecular interactions (e.g. bonds, angles,
torsions, etc).  Also note that this quantity is the negative of the
per-atom pressure tensor.  It is also really a stress-volume
formulation.  It would need to be divided by a per-atom volume to have
units of stress, but an individual atom's volume is not easy to
compute in a deformed solid.  Thus, if you sum the diagonal components
of the per-atom stress tensor for all atoms in the system and divide
the sum by 3V, where V is the volume of the system, you should get -P,
where P is the total pressure of the system.

Computation of per-atom stress tensor components requires a loop thru
the neighbor list and inter-processor communication, so it can be
inefficient to compute/dump this quantity too frequently or to have
multiple compute/dump commands, each of a {stress/atom} style.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:] none

[Default:] none
