"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute attribute/atom command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID group-ID attribute/atom style :pre

ID, group-ID are documented in "compute"_compute.html command
attribute/atom = style name of this compute command
style = {x} or {y} or {z} or {xu} or {yu} or {zu} or {vx} or {vy} or {vz} or {fx} or {fy} or {fz} or {xyz} or {v} or {f} :ul

[Examples:]

compute 1 all attribute/atom vy
compute mine all attribute/atom xyz :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that calculates (or simply stores) one or more
attributes for each atom in a group.  This is useful for input to the
"fix ave/spatial"_fix_ave_spatial.html command to do spatial averaging
by layers or to the "fix ave/atom"_fix_ave_atom.html command to
perform time-averaging of per-atom quantities.  The attribute values
can also be output directly by the "dump custom"_dump.html command,
but it has keywords that output these quantities without the need to
define an additional compute.

The styles {x}, {y}, {z}, {xu}, {yu}, {zu}, {vx}, {vy}, {vz}, {fx},
{fy}, and {fz} each store a single scalar value per atom.

The {x}, {y}, {z} keywords store atom coordinate in the appropriate
distance "units"_units.html (Angstroms, sigma, etc) and will always be
inside (or slightly outside) the simulation box.  Use {xu}, {yu}, {zu}
if you want the coordinates "unwrapped" by the image flags for each
atom.  Unwrapped means that if the atom has passed thru a periodic
boundary one or more times, the value is printed for what the
coordinate would be if it had not been wrapped back into the periodic
box.  Note that using {xu}, {yu}, {zu} means that the coordinate
values may be far outside the simulation box.

Note that if you want to compute the time-averaged position of an atom
coordinate that could pass thru a periodic boundary (e.g. via the "fix
ave/atom"_fix_ave_atom.html command), you probably want to use {xu}
instead of {x}.

The styles {xyz}, {v}, and {f} each store a vector of 3 quantities per
atom.

Note that the various commands that reference this compute use a
different syntax for accessing scalar versus vector values, e.g. c_ID
versus c_ID[2].

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"fix ave/atom"_fix_ave_atom.html, "fix
ave/spatial"_fix_ave_spatial.html, "dump custom"_dump.html

[Default:] none
