"LAMMPS WWW Page"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)
:line

min_style command :h3

[Syntax:]

min_style style :pre

style = {cg} or {hftn} or {sd} or {downhill} or {quickmin} or {fire} :ul

[Examples:]

min_style cg
min_style hftn
min_style fire :pre

[Description:]

Choose a minimization algorithm to use when a "minimize"_minimize.html
command is performed.

The {cg}, {htfn}. and {sd} styles are traditional minimizers, which
relax the potential energy of the system to a local minimum.  As a
by-product they also relax the force on each atom towards 0.0.  To
work effectively these minimizers require the negative gradient of the
energy of the system (the objective function) be equivalent to the
force on the atoms.  None of these styles use the
"timestep"_timestep.html setting.

The {downhill}, {quickmin}, and {fire} styles are damped-dynamics
minimizers which are less mathematically rigorous, but tend to work
well in practice.  They perform calculations only using the forces on
atoms which they relax towards 0.0.  As a by-product they also
typically relax the energy towards a local minimum.  However, because
they ignore the energy of the system, they can work with
non-conservative interactions, e.g. dynamics that includes damping
terms, or with a coupled system, like for nudged elastic band (NEB)
calculations, where inter-replica forces are not an analytic
derivative of an energy objective function.  Since they are performing
a damped form of dynamics, all of these minimizers update atom
positions based on the "timestep"_timestep.html setting.

Style {cg} is the Polak-Ribiere (PR) version of the conjugate gradient
(CG) algorithm.  At each iteration, the force gradient is combined
with the previous iteration information to compute a new search
direction perpendicular (conjugate) to the previous search direction.
A linesearch is performed along the search direction to determine the
distance to move atoms.  The PR variant affects how the direction is
chosen and how the CG method is restarted when it ceases to make
progress.  The PR variant is thought to be the most effective CG
choice.

Style {hftn} is a Hessian-free truncated Newton algorithm.  At each
iteration a quadratic model of the energy potential is solved by a
conjugate gradient inner iteration.  The Hessian (second derivatives)
of the energy is not formed directly, but approximated in each
conjugate search direction by a finite difference directional
derivative.  When close to an energy minimum, the algorithm behaves
like a Newton method and exhibits a quadratic convergence rate to high
accuracy.  In many cases the behavior of {hftn} is similar to {cg},
but it offers another minimizer alternative if {cg} seems to perform
poorly. 

Style {sd} is a steepest descent algorithm.  At each iteration, the
search direction is set to the downhill direction corresponding to the
force vector (negative gradient of energy).  A linesearch is performed
along the search direction to determine the distance to move atoms.
Typically, steepest descent will not converge as quickly as CG, but
may be more robust in some situations.

Style {downhill} is a simple damped-dynamics minimizer which is
conceptually similar to steepest descent.  At each iteration, forces
are computed and the each atom's position is updated by an Euler
step:

Xnew = X + dt*dt * F/m :pre

where X is the old position, dt is the timestep, m is the atom mass,
and F is the force on the atom.  This is effectively an Euler time
integration step with the velocity set to 0.0.  The timestep used is
set by the "timestep"_timestep.html command, except that if any forces
are too large, the timestep is limited so that no atoms displaces more
than {dmax}, as set by the "min_modify"_min_modify.html command.

Style {quickmin} is a damped-dynamics minimizer based on the Quickmin
algorithm of "(Jonsson)"_#Jonsson as described in
"(Sheppard)"_#Sheppard.  It performs an Euler update of the position
and velocity each iteration as follows:

Xnew = X + dt V
Vnew = V + dt F/m :pre

where V is the velocity of each atom, which is intially set to 0.0 by
the minimizer.  Quickmin also projects the velocity onto the force
direction (steepest descent) and zeroes the velocity whenever it
becomes anti-parallel to the force (moving uphill).

Style {fire} is a damped-dynamics minimizer based on the FIRE
algorithm "(Bitzek)"_#Bitzek.  It is an enhancement to the Quickmin
algorithm which adds an effective intertia term to the equations of
motion and adapts the timestep and degree of projection of the
velocity onto the force direction, in an attempt to converge more
quickly.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"min_modify"_min_modify.html, "minimize"_minimize.html

[Default:]

min_style cg :pre

:line

:link(Bitzek)
[(Bitzek)] Bitzek, Koskinen, Gahler, Moseler, Gumbsch,
Phys Rev Lett, 97, 170201 (2006).

:link(Sheppard)
[(Sheppard)] Sheppard, Terrell, Henkelman, J Chem Phys, 128, 134106 (2008).

:link(Jonsson)
[(Jonsson)] Jonsson, Mills, Jacobson, Classical and Quantum
Dynamics in Condensed Phase Simulations, J Chem Phys, 128, 134106 (2008).
