"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

reset_timestep command :h3

[Syntax:]

reset_timestep N :pre

N = timestep number :ul

[Examples:]

reset_timestep 0
reset_timestep 4000000 :pre

[Description:]

Set the timestep counter to the specified value.  This command
normally comes after the timestep has been set by reading it in from a
file or a previous simulation advanced the timestep.

The "read_data"_read_data.html and "create_box"_create_box.html
commands set the timestep to 0; the "read_restart"_read_restart.html
command sets the timestep to the value it had when the restart file
was written.

[Restrictions:] none

This command cannot be used when a dump file is defined via the
"dump"_dump.html command and has already been written to.  It also
cannot be used when a "restart frequency"_restart.html has been set,
and a restart file has already been written.  This is because the
changed timestep can mess up the planned timestep for the next file
write.  See the "undump"_undump.html command or "restart
0"_restart.html command for info on how to turn off these definitions
if necessary.  New specifications for dump and restart files can be
given after the reset_timestep command is used.

This command cannot be used when any fixes are defined that keep track
of time or the timestep in order to perform time-dependent operations.
Examples include the "ave" or "wall" fixes such as "fix
ave/spatial"_fix_ave_spatial.html or "fix
wall/lj126"_fix_wall_lj126.html, and also "fix
indent"_fix_indent.html.  The wall and indeter fixes allow for a
velocity or other time-dependent parameter to be specified, which
would be messed up by resetting the timestep.

Restting the timestep will clear the flags for "computes"_compute.html
that may have calculated some quantity from a previous run.  This
means that quantity cannot be accessed by a variable in between runs
until a new run is performed.  See the "variable"_variable.html
command for more details.

[Related commands:] none

[Default:] none
